# PODNAME: Neo4j::Types::Duration
# ABSTRACT: Represents a Neo4j temporal duration value

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 $months      = $duration->months;
 $days        = $duration->days;
 $seconds     = $duration->seconds;
 $nanoseconds = $duration->nanoseconds;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Represents a temporal duration value in Neo4j.
Includes month, days, seconds, and nanoseconds components,
which are all expressed as integer numbers.
The length of the duration is defined by the combination
of these four components.

Duration values may be returned from a Neo4j database server.
Generic Duration values may also be created locally.
See L<Neo4j::Types::Generic/"Duration">.

Supported in Neo4j S<version 3.4> and above.

=head1 METHODS

L<Neo4j::Types::Duration> specifies the following methods.

=head2 days

 $days = $duration->days;

Return the size of the "days" component of this duration.

=head2 months

 $months = $duration->months;

Return the size of the "months" component of this duration.

=head2 nanoseconds

 $nanoseconds = $duration->nanoseconds;

Return the size of the "nanoseconds" component of this duration.

=head2 seconds

 $seconds = $duration->seconds;

Return the size of the "seconds" component of this duration.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item * L<Neo4j::Types::Generic/"Duration">

=item * L<Neo4j::Types::ImplementorNotes/"TEMPORAL TYPES">

=item * L<"Temporal values" in Neo4j Cypher Manual|https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/5/values-and-types/temporal/>

=back
